and six Israeli soldiers have described
being authorized to open fire on
Palestinians indiscriminately they told
Israel's plus 972 magazine they had
executed civilians who strayed into
so-called noo zones Two Soldiers said
commanders gave permission to burn
Palestinian homes to the ground after
they'd occupied them one reservist
recalled firing bullets into the sea or
into abandoned buildings because because
he was
bored Orin ziv is a journalist and
commentator at plus 972 magazine he
joins us now from Tel Aviv good to have
you with us so first of all let me ask
you
this the Israeli officials say no they
they have rules of of Engagement and any
violations their exceptions to the rule
which are investigated from your
understanding of speaking to soldiers
are we talking about a few isolated
incidents or are we talking about a
general standing shall we say operating
procedure that is prevalent in the
Army thank you for having me first of
all it's important to say that in our
investigation on 972 magazine we spoke
to six soldier from different units who
were serving in different times across
the Gaza Strip what we could learn from
them that the opening f regul ations
were not very strict some of them didn't
even get proper order from their
commanders and from higher up and in
general they said they told us they
testified that there were no limits they
could fire almost at everything and
we're talking on operation from the
ground and even when we are talking
about sensitive targets as they call it
schools Hospital public institutions
they said they had to ask for permission
but it was almost a bureaucratic thing
and it was always approved they said
that even if you had a very small sense
of fear or danger you could shoot and
some of them even testified they were
shooting out of being bored or just for
fun to the sky to open areas but also to
in populated areas as you mentioned one
of the soldiers testified that there was
a Red Zone around the area H the
soldiers were positioned inside the Gaza
Strip in between houses and
neighborhoods and everybody any
Palestinian armed or not armed who
crossed this line it was allowed to
shoot in order to kill he said that
every man between the age 15 and 50 was
considered a fighter even though if he
was in civilian clothes or without
weapon he was considered a fighter or
potential fighter and was allowed to
shoot in order to kill I think the
general feeling the soldier described is
that there was a big sense after the
October 7 attack of Revenge and we heard
it also from Israeli official from the
Prime Minister and Senior ministers and
this approach went down to the
commanders on the ground and also to the
very simple soldiers that just felt they
can do anything a sense of Revenge they
told us the the statement that there no
innocent people in Gaza that everyone
involved with Hamas that everybody
celebrated the October have an attack
and therefore they wanted to punish them
let me jump in Orin and and you said the
feeling of Revenge some of what's quoted
in your article quotes soldiers saying
it is permissible to shoot at the center
of their body mass not in the air it's
permissible to shoot everyone a young
girl an old woman from speaking with
these soldiers did you get the idea that
shooting at young girls or old women
might result sometimes in investigation
or
repercussions or being called or held to
account in any
way so one soldier mentioned that
although he said he was trying to avoid
that and he said that that might cause
some internal questioning or
investigation but on the very low level
of the commanded commanders inside G it
wouldn't go out and higher up and in
general other soldiers told us that they
felt that everything is permitted so
sometimes when things happen commanders
would investigate it but again it
wouldn't get to a court or to a proper
investigation from what I
understand and part of this article also
has some disturbing accounts about
blowing up and destroying Palestinian
civilian
property after the Israeli Army
um had occupied the building talk to us
about
that to clarify soldiers were position
as we know in Palestinian private houses
and when a specific unit or a group of
soldier decides to move on or order to
move on H they had a a order or
regulation to burn the house down
meaning they would gather all the
furniture and the mattresses in the
middle of the house and set it on fire
the official explanation the soldier
were giving told by the commanders is
that if some military equipment or
sensitive materials was was left there
it will be destroyed and also mentioning
that they didn't want Hamas to use the
houses but of course between the lines
we understood that this was also a form
of prevention to prevent Palestinians to
go back to the houses this was done as a
command not as a private initiative and
also other things like that vandalizing
houses graffiti stealing and looting
this was done with commanders on the
ground noticing that and ignoring it and
not taking any action on these
matters Orin I've got so many other
questions to ask you but I think we're
going to have to save it for another day
thanks so much Oren Z journalist and
commentator at plus 972
magazine thank you so much for having me
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from alaz